doc/md: postgres getting started guide (#2567)
ariga/atlas: doc/md/guides/postgres/automatic-migrations.md

}
// highlight-end
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="sql" label="SQL">

```sql title="schema.sql"
-- Create "users" table
CREATE TABLE "users" (
  "id" bigint NOT NULL,
  "name" character varying NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY ("id")
);

// highlight-start
-- Create "repos" table
CREATE TABLE "repos" (
    "id" bigint NOT NULL,
    "name" character varying NOT NULL,
    "owner_id" bigint NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY ("id"),
    FOREIGN KEY ("id") REFERENCES "users" ("id")
);
//highlight-end
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now that our _desired state_ has changed, to apply these changes to our database, Atlas will plan a migration for us
by running the `atlas schema apply` command:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="hcl" label="Atlas DDL (HCL)" default>

```shell
atlas schema apply \
-u "postgres://postgres:pass@:5432/demo?search_path=public&sslmode=disable" \
--to file://schema.hcl \
--dev-url "docker://postgres/15/dev?search_path=public"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="sql" label="SQL">

```shell
atlas schema apply \
-u "postgres://postgres:pass@:5432/demo?search_path=public&sslmode=disable" \
--to file://schema.sql \
--dev-url "docker://postgres/15/dev?search_path=public"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Apply the changes, and that's it! You have successfully run a declarative migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approve the proposed changes, and that's it! You have successfully run a declarative migration.
```

-- Create "commits" table
CREATE TABLE "public"."commits" (
  "id" bigint NOT NULL,
  "message" character varying NOT NULL,
  "repo_id" bigint NOT NULL,
  "author_id" bigint NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY ("id"),
  CONSTRAINT "fk_commit_author" FOREIGN KEY ("author_id") REFERENCES "public"."users" ("id") ON UPDATE NO ACTION ON DELETE NO ACTION,
  CONSTRAINT "fk_commit_repo" FOREIGN KEY ("repo_id") REFERENCES "public"."repos" ("id") ON UPDATE NO ACTION ON DELETE NO ACTION
);
```

Let's run `atlas migrate push` again and observe the new file on the migration directory page.

```shell
atlas migrate push app \
--dev-url "docker://postgres/15/dev?search_path=public"
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img src="https://atlasgo.io/uploads/postgres/images/second-push.png" alt="postgres migrate push" width="100%"/>
<p style={{fontSize: 12}}>Migration Directory created with <code>atlas migrate push</code></p>
</div>

## Next Steps

In this guide we learned about the declarative and versioned workflows, and how to use Atlas to generate migrations,
push them to an Atlas workspace and apply them to databases.

Next steps:

> * Read the [full docs](/atlas-schema/hcl) to learn HCL schema syntax or about specific ClickHouse [column types](/atlas-schema/hcl-types#clickhouse)

Reviewer 2: postgres
